Blood pressure is the force of your blood
pushing against the walls of your arteries.
High blood pressure, or hypertension,
is a condition in which the force of blood
against the arteries is more than normal.
High blood pressure can lead to
serious health conditions including,
heart disease, stroke, kidney damage and eye problems.
Your blood pressure measurement
is made up of two numbers.
The top number, called the systolic reading,
is a measure of the pressure in your arteries
when your heart beats, or contracts.
A normal systolic pressure is below 120.
The bottom number, called the diastolic reading,
is the pressure in your arteries
when your heart rests between beats.
A normal diastolic blood pressure
is lower than 80.
Usually, high blood pressure is defined
as blood pressure above 130/80.
Getting your blood pressure checked regularly
will help identify any pressure changes
or potential problems.